>> Nina Zakharenko: The if statement, the
contents of the if statement will only run
if the condition is true,
otherwise they don't.
So if 3 is less than 5,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
should see that printed out.
If we do it the other way around,
>> Nina Zakharenko: If 3
is greater than 5,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We won't see anything.
You don't need parentheses in your if
statement here like you might in other
languages, you just have
to put a condition.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If statements
also work with truthiness.
So let's say a is an empty list and
I say if a print("Hello"),
what am I gonna see?
Nothing, right.
What if I had a variable b,
a list that had some items in it,
and I say,
if b print("Hello"), what will I see?
>> Speaker 2: You'll see it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'll see it,
yeah, it's truthy.
So,
>> Nina Zakharenko: If statements have
a few more components to them.
We know that the code in the if statement
only runs if the if statement is
true, right?
So I say a is true, if a print("Hello").
It'll run, right?
If we want something to
run in the opposite case,
if a is not true, we'll say else, and
use the colon and say Goodbye, right?
So that prints out Hello if a was false,
and we wrote the same code,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll get Goodbye.
>> Nina Zakharenko: One
other thing here is else if.
So let's say a is equal to true,
and b is equal to true.
So I can say, actually, sorry,
let's make a false, and b true.
So I can say, if a, right,
if a is true, we're gonna print out 1.
Otherwise, I will say that with else if or
in Python abbreviated to elif.
Also with a colon, oops.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
need a condition here, and
else if is not an else statement.
So we'll check for something else.
We'll say, elif b is true, print("2").
And then else means if neither
of those conditions are met,
print this other thing.
And you can have as many else
ifs in your code as you want to.
So in this case, it'll print out two.
a was not true, so we skipped this.
But this condition was true and
so we went in here, and
then we skipped the else because
we found a condition that matched.